My Parents Hometown Information
About Chengalpattu
Chengalpattu, previously known as Chinglepet, is a town and the headquarters of Chengalpattu of the state Tamil Nadu, India. The town is located near to the industrial and IT hub. It is the headquarters of the district and is 56 kilometers (35 mi) away from the state capital, Chennai on the National Highway 45. Chengalpattu Railway Station, technically known as CGL, is one of the major railway junctions of the Southern Railway and is a nationally important halt.
Chengalpattu Government Hospital is a landmark and the largest government hospital in this district. The Hospital has its own medical college. The town has the principal court of the district, and Dr. Ambedhkar Law College.The city is believed to have been named after a lily called 'chenkazhuneer poo' which is found aplenty in the region. It is on the Palar River about 56 km southwest of Chennai City (Madras) and thus Chengapattu is called the "Gateway of Chennai".
It is an important commercial center. It has a medical college and other colleges affiliated with the University of Madras. In 2011, the town had a population of 62,579. As of now the current population is approximately 85,000.

History of Chengalpattu
Chengalpattu dates from the early Chola dynasty of the 2nd century BCE.[1] Chengalpattu was formerly a capital of the kings of Vijayanagara, after their defeat by the Deccan sultanates at Battle of Talikota in 1565. The fortress at Chengalpattu, built by the Vijayanagara kings in the 16th century, was of strategic importance, owing to its swampy surroundings and the lake that flanked its side.
In 1639 a local governor or nayak, subject to these kings, granted a piece of coastal land to the British East India Company where Fort St George now stands, which became the nucleus of the city of Madras. Chengalpattu was taken by the French in 1751 and was retaken in 1752 by Robert Clive, after which it proved of great strategic advantage to the British, especially when Lally failed to capture the fortress in his advance on Madras.
During the wars of the British with Hyder Ali of Mysore, it withstood his assault and afforded a refuge to the nearby residents. In 1780, after the defeat of Colonel W Baillie, the army of Sir Hector Munro took refuge there. By 1900 the town was noted for its manufacture of pottery and was a local market center, especially of the rice trade. The surrounding district was home to cotton and silk weaving, indigo dyeing, tanneries, and a cigar factory, and extensive salt manufacturing took place along the coast.

Geography of Chengalpattu
Chengalpattu is located at 12.7°N 79.98°E. It has an average elevation of 36 metres (118 ft). 


About Chennai
Chennai is the capital of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. Located on the Coromandel Coast of the Bay of Bengal, it is one of the largest cultural, economic and educational centers of south India. According to the 2011 Indian census, it is the sixth-most populous city and fourth-most populous urban agglomeration in India. The city together with the adjoining regions constitutes the Chennai Metropolitan Area, which is the 36th-largest urban area by population in the world. The traditional and de facto gateway of South India, Chennai is among the most-visited Indian cities by foreign tourists. It was ranked the 43rd-most visited city in the world for the year 2015 and was ranked the 36th-most visited city in the world for the year 2019. The Quality of Living Survey rated Chennai as the safest city in India. Chennai attracts 45 percent of health tourists visiting India, and 30 to 40 percent of domestic health tourists. As such, it is termed "India's health capital". Chennai has the fifth-largest urban economy of India. 
Chennai had the third-largest expatriate population in India, at 35,000 in 2009, 82,790 in 2011 and estimated at over 100,000 by 2016. Tourism-guide publisher Lonely Planet named Chennai as one of the top ten cities in the world to visit in 2015. Chennai is ranked as a beta-level city in the Global Cities Index, and was ranked the best city in India by India Today in the 2014 annual Indian city survey. In 2015 Chennai was named the "hottest" city (city worth visiting and worth living in for long term) by the BBC, citing the mixture of both modern and traditional values. National Geographic mentioned Chennai as the only South Asian city to feature in its 2015 "Top 10 food cities" list. Chennai was also named the ninth-best cosmopolitan city in the world by Lonely Planet. In October 2017, Chennai was added to the UNESCO Creative Cities Network (UCCN) list for its rich musical tradition. 
The Chennai Metropolitan Area is one of the largest municipal economies of India. More than one-third of India's automobile industry being based in the city. Home to the Tamil film industry, Chennai is also known as a major film production center. Chennai is one of the 100 Indian cities to be developed as a smart city under the Smart Cities Mission.
